Adding tutorials in benchopt doc (#601)
benchopt/benchopt: doc/tutorials/tutorial_understanding_building_benchmark.rst

.. _Benchopt: https://benchopt.github.io/#

> Understanding and building a simple benchmark with Benchopt

Reviewer: is "with Benchopt" necessary here?

Author: I guess not, removing it!

===========================================================

> Are you looking for a simple, step-by-step introduction to the `Benchopt`_ library? Then look no further! In this tutorial, we are going to learn how to use the `Benchopt`_ library to compare various algorithms in order to minimize a given cost. This tutorial complements the `write a benchmark <https://benchopt.github.io/how.html>`_ webpage with a more practical, hands-on approach. 

Reviewer: IMO no need to make Benchopt a link (2 occurrences)

Author: I removed the global link definition. I think it is still nice if Benchopt homepage is linked at least once, in case this html is used outside the doc for some reason.

> Let's say we want to minimize the cost function of the `ridge regression problem <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ridge_regression>`_, a variant of linear regression which is a common of supervised machine learning.

Reviewer: Maybe: Lets' say you're interested in benchmarking solvers to the...

Reviewer: typo "which is a common of supervised learning"

Author: tried something!

.. math::

    f(\beta) = \frac{1}{2} {\|y - X\beta\|}^2 + \lambda{\|\beta\|}^2

where
    - \\(y\\) is a vector with \\(m\\) elements, typically some observations
    - \\(X\\) is a matrix with \\(m \\times n\\) elements, typically the regressors
    - :math:`\beta` is a vector with \\(n\\) elements that we obtain by regressing \\(y\\) on \\(X\\).
    - \\(\\|x\\|\\) is the euclidean norm of \\(x\\).
     

Let us also suppose that we are working with a specific optimization algorithm that aims at solving the ridge regression problem: `the gradient descent (GD) algorithm <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gradient_descent>`_. GD is a simple algorithm that moves iteratively along the steepest descent direction. Given an estimate :math:`\beta`, GD iterates the following step:

.. math:: 

>     \beta \leftarrow \beta - \eta \nabla_{f}(\beta)

Author: done

>     \beta \leftarrow \beta - \eta \nabla_{f}(\beta)

Reviewer: btw you can commit suggestions directly from the github interface (and commit them in batch to avoid having 1 commit per suggested modif)

> where :math:`\eta` is the learning rate or stepsize, and controls how much the unknown is moved alongside the descent direction. Vector :math:`\nabla_{f}(\beta)` is the gradient of the cost function defined above, evaluated at \\(\\beta\\).

Author: done

> Even though GD is a simple algorithm, when applied to our ridge regression problem, we should be mindful of the two hyperparameters: the regularization parameter \\(\\lambda\\), and the gradient stepsize \\( \\eta\\). It is very common in machine learning that we are facing a situation where we want to vary these parameters, and compare the behavior of our algorithm in each scenario. Benchopt we can create a benchmark for this problem, here is a screenshot of what we will get at the end of this tutorial.

Author: :)

> .. image:: screenshot_mytemplate_ridgeloss.png

Author: GD and GD-ridge are the two solvers we get at the end of the tutorial. As stated, this is a screenshot from the future, I think it is fine if not everything is clear yet, since explaining this is the whole point of the tutorial.

The name of the Objective (OLS) is something I forgot to change in the tutorial.

By naming the benchmark my_benchmark, the plot prints My Benchmark benchmark as a title, which I agree is not great. Any suggestion?

> .. image:: screenshot_mytemplate_ridgeloss.png

Reviewer 2: The `GD` solver is designed for OLS and we change the benchmark to tackle Ridge regression.
And we also want the tuto to explain how to add a solver. So the idea was to had a correct solver, vs the existing one that does not account for regularisation. This allow to show an "interesting" thing, that is that if you don't optimize the right problem, it does not work :)

But maybe we can simply modify the GD one directly and add a diverging one with step size too large? I have no strong opinion here.

    :width: 800

> We can now dive into the framework and see how leverage it to easily create a benchmark!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can now dive into the framework and see how to leverage it to easily create our benchmark!
```

Author: done

..
    - It is also fairly common to have to compare several different optimization algorithms to minimize the same cost function. For anyone who has experience in this, performing fair comparisons between various algorithms, which are typically implemented by other people, is quite challenging to do properly. For instance, our implementation of GD may be incorrect. If we trust the algorithm to return a loss function which is computed inside the GD code, it may potentially be artificially small. For instance, when implementing GD, we might mistakingly return as the loss :math:`\frac{1}{2} {\|y - X\beta\|_2}^2 + \frac{1}{2}\lambda{\|\beta\|_2}^2` where the regularization has been wrongly halved. Then this implementation of GD would appear much better, but in fact it is being unfairly compared to competitors and the results reported would be inaccurate.

Installing Benchopt
-------------------

> Let's start by installing the benchopt package. It is a python package, so we are assuming that you are starting this tutorial with a functioning python installation, preferably version >=3.10. It is recommanded to run all this tutorial in a dedicated environment (such as a `virtual environment <https://docs.python.org/fr/3/library/venv.html>`_ or a conda environment)

Reviewer: I'd also remove the mention of virtual environments and conda environments (orthgonal to the tuto IMO). YMMV

> Let's start by installing the benchopt package. It is a python package, so we are assuming that you are starting this tutorial with a functioning python installation, preferably version >=3.10. It is recommanded to run all this tutorial in a dedicated environment (such as a `virtual environment <https://docs.python.org/fr/3/library/venv.html>`_ or a conda environment)

Author: removed the python version bit.

If possible I would like to keep the mention of virtual environment (at least until more reviews suggest we remove it), it is a good practice anyways and will avoid that people have issues with the tutorial because of a cluttered (base) environment.

.. 
    , which you can create in an empty repository with the following commands in a linux terminal:

    .. code-block:: bash

        python -m venv benchopt_tutorial_1
        source benchopt_tutorial_1/bin/activate

> Benchopt is referenced in the PyPI index, which means it can be installed using ``pip`` by running in a terminal

Author: agreed, done

.. code-block:: bash 

>     pip install benchopt

Author: very nice, thanks. Changing all terminal commands blocks to prompt blocks.

Benchopt and its dependencies are going to be installed, just wait until this is done. If you have any issue with the installation, if you are already in a clean virtual environment, you may have a look at the `installation page <https://benchopt.github.io/#install>`_.

> Installing and Running a first benchmark

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing and running a first benchmark
```

Author: done

----------------------------------------

> Benchopt in itself is like a mother package: it supervises and runs smaller libraries, a.k.a. the benchmarks.Therefore, benchmarks are repositories with a predefined structure and some required files (we will go over each of them in the next section) that are processed by benchopt. The benchmark specifies information about the problem (typically the loss function to minimize), the dataset on which the algorithms are tested (values of \\(X \\) and \\( y\\)) and the solvers (like our GD algorithm). It is likely that if you are reading this tutorial, you are in fact mostly interested in writing and running a benchmark.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benchopt in itself is like a mother package: it supervises and runs smaller libraries, a.k.a. the benchmarks. Therefore, benchmarks are repositories with a predefined structure and some required files (we will go over each of them in the next section) that are processed by benchopt. The benchmark specifies information about the problem (typically the loss function to minimize), the dataset on which the algorithms are tested (values of \\(X \\) and \\( y\\)) and the solvers (like our GD algorithm). It is likely that if you are reading this tutorial, you are in fact mostly interested in writing and running a benchmark.
```

> To write a benchmark, it is recommended to start from the template benchmark shared in the Benchopt organisation. To get this template and rename it ``my_benchmark``, you can clone it from its Github repository

Reviewer: add a link here

Author: done

.. code-block:: bash 

    git clone git@github.com:benchopt/template_benchmark my_benchmark

The template benchmark is not designed to model our ridge regression problem, but luckily it is pretty close! The cost which is implemented in the template benchmark is the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS)

.. math:: 

    g(\beta) = \frac{1}{2} \|y - X\beta \|^2

> and the solver implement is GD with \\(\\nabla_g(\\beta) = -X^Ty + X^TX\\beta \\) the gradient of \\(g\\) at \\(\\beta \\).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the solver implement is GD with \\(\\nabla g(\\beta) = -X^Ty + X^TX\\beta \\) the gradient of \\(g\\) at \\(\\beta \\).
```

> We will modify this template to adapt it to the ridge regression problem next, but before that let us run this benchmark. In other words, let us use benchopt to read the contents of the template benchmark and run GD on OLS with a predefined set of stepsizes, in our case \\( [1, 1.99] \\) (the stepsize is scaled with the Lipschitz constant, you can ignore this detail if you are not familiar with this concept).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will modify this template to adapt it to the ridge regression problem next, but before that let us run this benchmark. In other words, let us use benchopt to read the contents of the template benchmark and run GD on OLS with a predefined set of stepsizes, in our case \\( [1, 1.99] \\) (the stepsize is scaled by the inverse of the gradient's Lipschitz constant - you can ignore this detail if you are not familiar with this concept).
```

Author: thanks I was being too sketchy ^^

To run the template benchmark, simply run the following command in the terminal:

.. code-block:: bash

    benchopt run my_benchmark

.. image:: console_template.png
    :width: 600
    :alt: A screenshot of the console during the benchopt run command

You will see something similar to this in your terminal

    - *Simulated* tells us that the dataset run by benchopt is the simulation set up in the benchmark
    - *Ordinary Least Squares* tells us which loss is minimized, and the hyperparameters are written in bracket. 
    - *GD* is a line indicating the progress of algorithm GD for this problem (Simulated dataset, OLS loss). Again its hyperparameters are written in brackets (here the stepsize value).

> Once the benchmark has been run, a pop-up window should open in your default navigator. This provides a visualization of the results of the run, which is useful to immediately observe, comment and share the results. After running the template benchmark, we can observe the convergence plots of GD with the two different stepsize choices, for two different simulated dataset. The convergence plots can be made log-log for easier reading. Also, depending on your computer, the runtime is so low that the convergence plot with respect to time is not reliable. We advise to look at the results in terms of iteration (scrolling menu on the bottom left of the webpage). Feel free to play around with the plotting options here! Note that the dataset comes with two values for an option whiten, let us ignore this detail in the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the benchmark has been run, a window should open in your default navigator. This provides a visualization of the results of the run, which is useful to immediately observe, comment and share the results. After running the template benchmark, we can observe the convergence plots of GD with the two different stepsize choices, for two different simulated dataset. The convergence plots can be made log-log for easier reading. Also, depending on your computer, the runtime is so low that the convergence plot with respect to time is not reliable. We advise to look at the results in terms of iteration (scrolling menu on the bottom left of the webpage). Feel free to play around with the plotting options here! Note that the dataset comes with two values for an option whiten, let us ignore this detail in the tutorial.
```

Author: done

Understanding and building a simple benchmark
=============================================

Are you looking for a simple, step-by-step introduction to the `Benchopt <https://benchopt.github.io/#>`_ library?
Then look no further!
In this tutorial, we are going to learn how to use the Benchopt library to compare various algorithms in order to minimize a given cost.
This tutorial complements the `write a benchmark <https://benchopt.github.io/how.html>`_ webpage with a more practical, hands-on approach. 

Let's say you are interested in benchmarking solvers to minimize the cost function of the `ridge regression problem <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ridge_regression>`_, a variant of linear regression which is a common problem in supervised machine learning.

.. math::

    f(\beta) = \frac{1}{2} {\|y - X\beta\|}^2 + \lambda{\|\beta\|}^2

> where

Author: This is due to rst automatic formatting for text in front of bullet lists. Should be removed

>     - \\(y\\) is a vector with \\(m\\) elements, typically some observations

Author: I guess that depends on which part of ML you are familiar with :) Maybe we stick to m and n for now, and we can change later if other tutorials/examples make use of a different notation?

    - \\(X\\) is a matrix with \\(m \\times n\\) elements, typically the regressors
    - :math:`\beta` is a vector with \\(n\\) elements that we obtain by regressing \\(y\\) on \\(X\\).

>     - \\(\\|x\\|\\) is the euclidean norm of \\(x\\).

Author: done

     

Let us also suppose that we are working with a specific optimization algorithm that aims at solving the ridge regression problem: `the gradient descent (GD) algorithm <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gradient_descent>`_.
GD is a simple algorithm that moves iteratively along the steepest descent direction.
Given an estimate :math:`\beta`, GD iterates the following step:

.. math:: 

    \beta \leftarrow \beta - \eta \nabla f(\beta)

where :math:`\eta` is the learning rate or stepsize, and controls how much the iterate is moved alongside the descent direction.
The vector :math:`\nabla f(\beta)` is the gradient of the cost function defined above, evaluated at \\(\\beta\\).

> Even though GD is a simple algorithm, when applied to our ridge regression problem, we should be mindful of the two hyperparameters: the regularization parameter \\(\\lambda\\), and the gradient stepsize \\( \\eta\\).

Author: I tried something, let me know if this works better

It is very common in machine learning that we are facing a situation where we want to vary these parameters, and compare the behavior of our algorithm in each scenario.
Benchopt we can create a benchmark for this problem, here is a screenshot of what we will get at the end of this tutorial.

.. image:: screenshot_mytemplate_ridgeloss.png
    :width: 800

> We can now dive into the framework and see how to leverage it to easily create our benchmark!

Author: With the figure environment, the space between the text and the figure should be more adequate

Therefore, benchmarks are repositories with a predefined structure and some required files (we will go over each of them in the next section) that are processed by benchopt.
The benchmark specifies information about the problem (typically the loss function to minimize), the dataset on which the algorithms are tested (values of \\(X \\) and \\( y\\)) and the solvers (like our GD algorithm).
It is likely that if you are reading this tutorial, you are in fact mostly interested in writing and running a benchmark.

To write a benchmark, it is recommended to start from the `template benchmark <https://github.com/benchopt/template_benchmark>`_ shared in the Benchopt organisation.
To get this template and rename it ``my_benchmark``, you can clone it from its Github repository

.. prompt:: bash $

    git clone git@github.com:benchopt/template_benchmark my_benchmark

The template benchmark is not designed to model our ridge regression problem, but luckily it is pretty close!
The cost which is implemented in the template benchmark is the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS)

.. math:: 

    g(\beta) = \frac{1}{2} \|y - X\beta \|^2

> and the solver implement is GD with \\(\\nabla g(\\beta) = -X^Ty + X^TX\\beta \\) the gradient of \\(g\\) at \\(\\beta \\).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the only implemented solver is GD with \\(\\nabla g(\\beta) = -X^Ty + X^TX\\beta \\) the gradient of \\(g\\) at \\(\\beta \\).
```

We will modify this template to adapt it to the ridge regression problem next, but before that let us run this benchmark.
In other words, let us use benchopt to read the contents of the template benchmark and run GD on OLS with a predefined set of stepsizes, in our case \\( [1, 1.99] \\) (the stepsize is scaled by the inverse of the gradient's Lipschitz constant, you can ignore this detail if you are not familiar with this concept).

To run the template benchmark, simply run the following command in the terminal:

.. prompt:: bash $

    benchopt run my_benchmark

.. image:: console_template.png
    :width: 600
    :alt: A screenshot of the console during the benchopt run command

> You will see something similar to this in your terminal

Reviewer: add space above if possible

    - *Simulated* tells us that the dataset run by benchopt is the simulation set up in the benchmark
    - *Ordinary Least Squares* tells us which loss is minimized, and the hyperparameters are written in bracket. 
    - *GD* is a line indicating the progress of algorithm GD for this problem (Simulated dataset, OLS loss). Again its hyperparameters are written in brackets (here the stepsize value).

Once the benchmark has been run, a window should open in your default navigator.
This provides a visualization of the results of the run, which is useful to immediately observe, comment and share the results.

> After running the template benchmark, we can observe the convergence plots of GD with the two different stepsize choices, for two different simulated dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the template benchmark, we can observe the convergence plots of GD with the two different stepsize choices, for two different simulated datasets.
```

> The convergence plots can be made log-log for easier reading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The convergence plot scales can be changed for easier reading.
```
but we can also remove this sentence (not essential to understand how to setup a benchmark)

Also, depending on your computer, the runtime is so low that the convergence plot with respect to time is not reliable.

> We advise to look at the results in terms of iteration (scrolling menu on the bottom left of the webpage).

Reviewer: We shouldn't advise that

> Also, depending on your computer, the runtime is so low that the convergence plot with respect to time is not reliable.
> We advise to look at the results in terms of iteration (scrolling menu on the bottom left of the webpage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this specific toy example, the runtime is so low that the convergence plot with respect to time may not be reliable: you can also look at the results in terms of iterations, by scrolling the menu on the bottom left of the webpage.
```

Author: OK let's see how things change when modifying the example, committing the suggestion for now

Feel free to play around with the plotting options here!

> Note that the dataset comes with two values for an option whiten, let us ignore this detail in the tutorial.

Reviewer: Can you point to a place where this is explained?
```suggestion
Note that the objective comes with two possible values for a  `whiten` parameter. 
Let us ignore this detail in the tutorial.
```

Exploring the benchmark structure
---------------------------------

The template benchmark we are using at the moment is not exactly encoding the information we need for the ridge regression problem.
To properly modify the benchmark, first we need to dive deeper into how benchmarks work.

> To follow through this section, it is advised to open an editor (like vscode) in the root of the template benchmark to easily navigate between the files and folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow through this section, it is advised to open an editor (like vscode) at the root of the template benchmark to easily navigate between the files and folders.
```

> Here is the architecture of our template benchmark:

Reviewer: I'm in favor of not displaying the files that we don't speak about : clean template, test config, gitignore. It makes it easier for the reader to focus on the key concepts.

Author: Ok sure

::

    template_benchmark
    ├── datasets          
    │   └── simulated.py
    ├── solvers          

>     │   └── python-gd.py

Reviewer: can you rename it to gd here and in the template? simpler for a template IMO

Author: Not sure what you mean; this is the structure of the template benchmark, so I need to match exactly the naming from that benchmark.

    ├── benchmark_utils          
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── outputs          
    │   └── ...
    ├── objective.py
    ├── README.rst
    ├── clean_template.py          
    ├── test_config.py          
    └── .gitignore

The three most important files are

    - ``objective.py``: it contains the information about the cost function we want to minimize. In other words, it defines the formal problem we are interested in.

>     - ``python-gd.py``: it contains the information and code for the gradient descent solver, dedicated to the problem at hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``solvers/python-gd.py``: it contains the information and code for the gradient descent solver, dedicated to the problem at hand.
```

>     - ``simulated.py``: it contains the information about the dataset, i.e. the values of \\(y \\) and \\(X \\) used to test the algorithms. All benchmark in fact must have a ``simulated.py`` file which is used for testing by Benchopt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``datasets/simulated.py``: it contains the information about the dataset, i.e. the values of \\(y \\) and \\(X \\) used to test the algorithms. All benchmark in fact must have a ``simulated.py`` file which is used for testing by Benchopt.
```

            )

    - the ``run`` method in each solver, here ``python-gd``. It defines the steps taken by the algorithm. Benchopt dictates the maximal number of iterations to the solver, and therefore ``run`` takes the number of iterations as input while other parameters like the stepsize are class attributes. The estimate value of \\(\\beta \\) is updated in the class attributes, the ``run`` method does not require returns. For GD, the ``run`` function looks like
  
    .. code-block:: python

        def run(self, n_iter):
            L = np.linalg.norm(self.X, ord=2) ** 2
            alpha = self.scale_step / L
            beta = np.zeros(self.X.shape[1])
            for _ in range(n_iter):
                beta -= alpha * gradient_ols(self.X, self.y, beta)

            self.beta = beta

    - the ``get_data`` method in ``simulated.py`` where \\(y \\) and \\(X \\) are defined. In this template benchmark, they are simply generated randomly using numpy.

    .. code-block:: python

        def get_data(self):
            rng = np.random.RandomState(self.random_state)
            X = rng.randn(self.n_samples, self.n_features)
            y = rng.randn(self.n_samples)

>             return dict(X=X, y=y),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            return dict(X=X, y=y)
```

The second type of methods found in these three python files are the **communication** tools.
Indeed, solvers, dataset and objectives need to exchange information.
Typically, the solver needs to know the parameters used for the loss, in our case the value of the regularization parameter.
The objective needs to know the values of \\( X\\) and \\( y\\) defined in the dataset.

> This part of the benchmark can rapidly give you a headache if you are not familiar with the structure of the benchmark, but the figure above should be a good reference point.

Reviewer: I'd avoid "headache"

When a method from a class feeds a method in another class, it returns a dictionary (such as ``get_data`` we just discussed), otherwise it simply updates the class attributes.

> .. The previous figure may be updated to detail these communication methods.

Reviewer: rm

Finally, one may wonder where to define the hyperparameters of the problem.
The general rule of thumb is that hyperparameters are defined as attributes of solvers, objectives or dataset depending on where it makes the most sense.
For instance the stepsize is a solver-dependent parameter, it is defined as an attribute of the ``python-gd`` solver

.. prompt:: python

    class Solver(BaseSolver):
        name="GD"
        parameters = {
            'scale_step': [1, 1.99]
        }

Updating the template to implement a ridge regression benchmark
---------------------------------------------------------------

We are now equipped with enough knowledge to update the template benchmark to a ridge regression benchmark.
Formally, we are starting from OLS and GD implemented for the OLS problem.
Therefore we need to implement the following modifications:

    - we should add the regularization term \\( +\\lambda \\|\\beta \\|^2 \\) to the loss in ``objective.py``, and values for the regularization parameter.

>     - we should modify the computed gradient, knowing that \\( \\nabla f(\\beta) = \\nabla g(\\beta) + 2\\lambda\\beta \\).

Reviewer: we should also change the name of the benchmark

> We will not modify anything in the dataset since the inputs \\(X,y \\) of the regression and ridge regression are essentially the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will not modify anything in the dataset since the inputs \\(X,y \\) of the regression and ridge regression are the same.
```

Let's start with the ``objective.py`` file.
The regularization parameter values are part of the formal definition of the problem, so we can define them as attributes of the ``Objective`` class.

> The ``whiten_y`` parameter is already implemented, so we can simply add a ``reg`` parameter in the ``parameters`` dictionary.

Reviewer: we can also **replace** the whiten parameter, no?

Author: Ok I removed the True option for simplicity

.. code-block:: python

    class Objective(BaseObjective):
        name = "Ordinary Least Squares"
        parameters = {
            'whiten_y': [False, True],
            'reg': [1e1, 1e2]
        }

> This piece of code says that \\( \\lambda\\) should take two values \\( 10\\) or \\( 100\\) across the benchmark.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This piece of code says that \\( \\lambda\\) should take two values, \\( 10\\) or \\( 100\\), in the benchmark.
```

Then we update the ``compute`` method as follows:

.. code-block:: python

        def compute(self, beta):
            diff = self.y - self.X.dot(beta)
            l2reg = self.reg*np.linalg.norm(beta)**2
            return dict(
                value=.5 * diff.dot(diff) + l2reg,
                ols=.5 * diff.dot(diff),

>                 penalty=l2reg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                penalty=l2reg,
```

            )

We have done several modifications here:

>     - The ``l2reg`` variable computes the regularization term. It is added to the OLS term in the ``value`` field of the output dictionary. This ``value`` field is the main loss of the benchmark, used by all algorithms to track convergence.

Reviewer: add that it MUST be named `value`

Author: Done

>     - Additional metrics are computes, namely ``ols`` and ``penalty``. Benchmark will compute these metrics alongside the loss function, and we will be able to look at them in the resulting plots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Additional metrics are computed, namely ``ols`` and ``penalty``. Benchmark will compute these metrics alongside the loss function, and we will be able to look at them in the resulting plots.
```

One additional modification handles the fact that the solvers will require the knowledge of \\(\\lambda\\).
The way to communicate from objectives to solvers, according to the figure above, is by using the ``get_objective`` method.
It can be modified as follows

.. code-block:: python

        def get_objective(self):
            return dict(
                X=self.X,
                y=self.y,
                reg=self.reg
            )

That's it for the ``objective.py`` file!
We can now modify the solver.

> Instead of modifying directly ``python-gd.py``, let's create a new solver, ``python-gd-ridge.py``.

Reviewer: As said above, I'd modify this solver instead, keeping in mind that it's for beginners.

Author: Done, only one solver and we use the same file

Duplicate the ``python-gd.py`` file and rename it, e.g. using the following command in the ``solvers/`` directory

.. prompt:: bash $

    cp python-gd.py python-gd-ridge.py

You should now have a second file in the ``solvers/`` directory.
Since Benchopt easily runs several algorithms and compares them natively, we will be able to see if adapting the GD algorithm to the ridge problem is actually useful or not!

Modifying the solver means updating the ``run`` method, more specifically the gradient formula.
Inside the ``python-gd-ridge.py`` file, the new ``run`` method looks like this

.. code-block:: python

    def run(self, n_iter):

>         L = np.linalg.norm(self.X, ord=2) ** 2

Reviewer: this is missing `+ self.reg` hence the non convergence in the plots

Author: Good catch, thanks

        alpha = self.scale_step / L
        beta = np.zeros(self.X.shape[1])
        for _ in range(n_iter):
            beta -= alpha * (gradient_ols(self.X, self.y, beta) + 2*self.reg*beta)

        self.beta = beta

Note that we are using ``self.reg`` as the value of \\( \\lambda \\).
To get this value from the ``objective.py`` file, we need to update the ``set_objective`` method, which is the counterpart of ``get_objective`` we just updated in ``objective.py``.

.. code-block:: python

    def set_objective(self, X, y, reg):
        self.X, self.y, self.reg = X, y, reg

> As a final step, we can change the name of our new algorithm to ``"GD-ridge"`` in the class attribute ``name``, to differentiate it from ``"GD"`` in the visualization of the results.

Reviewer: I'd just say we keep the name (since we modify the existing one)

We run the benchopt with the same command as earlier, in the parent directory of the template benchmark:

.. prompt:: bash $

    benchopt run my_benchmark

Notice how the prompt in the terminal now contains logging for the two algorithms ``GD`` and ``GD-ridge``.

.. image:: console_ridge.png
    :width: 600

Upon completion of the run, you should again have all the results collected in a new interactive window in your default web navigator.
There is a lot of interesting information contained in these results.
For instance, select the following plotting options:

    - Simulated[n_features=500, n_samples=1000]
    - Ordinary Least Squares[reg=100.0, whiten_y=False]
    - objective_value
    - suboptimality_curve
    - loglog
    - iteration

You should see the following plot 

.. image:: screenshot_mytemplate_ridgeloss.png
    :width: 800

We may observe that the GD-ridge with ``stepsize=1`` reaches a much lower cost value that other methods, in particular GD without the ridge penalisation term.
This is expected since GD does not minimizes \\(f(\\beta) \\) but rather  \\( g(\\beta) \\).
Interestingly, using ``stepsize=1.99`` leads to large errors.

> This is caused by the scaling of the stepsize (using the Lipschitz constant) not being updated in our GD-ridge algorithm, and the stepsize is therefore not safe.

Reviewer: Too complex and it gives me (my 2 cents) the impression that benchopt is buggy.

I strongly prefer a selling picture where everything is correct and works fine

Author: I will improve on that, stick to ridge only as suggested.

One of the interesting features of Benchopt is its ability to easily compute and show several metrics over the run.

> We have computed the OLS loss \\(g(\\beta) \\) alongside the iterations, and we can observe its values by changing the ``Objective_column`` field to ``ols``

Reviewer: missing concluding dots here and line below
